# code_3000
Collection of Assignments for CSE 3000: Contemporary Issues in Computer Science and Engineering


Coming to school for Computer Science, I had originally had the idea of robotics and system programming to be a bunch of numbers like 0s and 1s that somehow could develop the technology we see daily. The more I study engineering, however, the more I believe building an AI is less like coding a bunch of numbers together and more like raising a child. Just as children are influenced by the environment in which they are raised, an AI/robot builds its ever-growing knowledge from the data we feed it. If that data is messy or biased, the AI will act out in ways we didn't intend and do things we never saw coming. This is not because it meant any harm, it's not because it is evil technology that will burn the planet, but because it was doing the only thing it is programmed to do: work with whatever information it was given and find the best possible route to solve a problem. In Chapter 5 of _Ethical Machines_ by Reid Blackman, Blackman points out that we can't just hope for the best. We have to 'hold the robot’s hand' through a strict Risk Management process. This means constantly asking yourself 3 very important questions before having AI perform any task. We first ask whether it is biased. Did we pass down our own ideas and influences, even accidentally, through the data? The next is, well, can it explain itself? If it does something unexpected, can we understand why? Is there a logical explanation it can provide? Lastly, and arguably most importantly, does it respect boundaries? Can we trust it? Ultimately, I think the most important part of AI ethics is the humans themselves. We can be the key; we can influence these robots. Though they don't have a brain, technology can sometimes be almost identical to one, and AI has proven time and time again that it will learn from its mistakes, so developers must raise it as a parent would raise a child. 
